We started the work on our first real course project,
time to connect Power BI desktop to the first source files, let's do that.
So this is the first data that we want to import into Power BI desktop or into the query editor to be more
precise, as you can see by the names, we have three csv files with population data by country and
for different periods.
Now the only important information at the moment actually is that we have three files and we have csv
files, now that we know that,
let's go back to our project Power BI desktop file and see how we can import the data we see right here.
Back in the query editor of our project file
and if we now go to the home ribbon and then press that new source button, we can connect Power BI
desktop or the query editor actually to the source files.
Now if you press the upper part of the button, the details get data menu opens,
this is one option,
if we close that and we click the lower part of the button, we see that we get a most common source
overview,
so this might help you to navigate faster and to select the selected source files quicker.
Nevertheless if you click onto more, you simply have the same Get Data menu as if you would click
that new source button in the upper part.
Now what we see right here is an overview of all the data connection types that are available in
Power BI desktop
and as you can see, this is quite a lot.
So to make the navigation easier, this overview is also categorized by different file types as we can see
right here,
so we have file like csv which is the one we need in our case, we have database like SQL
server
and by the way, I have to make a note. At the moment or in this module actually, we will only connect Power
BI desktop to csv files,
so a rather basic connection probably. If you want to know more on how to connect Power BI desktops to
more advanced things like a database, just have a look at one of the later sections of that course
but in this module, we will only talk about that basic csv connections as I just said.
So after knowing that, we can just take a quick look at the Azure connections, so that Microsoft service,
at online services like Facebook, Github and lots of other things and other like web which we used in
the first module.
Now as we know that, for the moment we only need file and the csv type, after we selected that, we can
now press connect
and now we have to select the first source file that we just had a look at,
so that csv population files.
Let me quickly navigate to the folder I located that files
and please do the same and then we'll see how we can get those files into a query editor.
Here I am in the source folder and now I will select the first csv file and by first, I mean the oldest
file,
so the 1950 - 1999 file.
So I selected that and press now open, now it takes a few seconds
and here we see the overview on how to create the query editor understands the structure of that file.
So we could talk about more things like set different delimiters but as in this case, the format seems
to be fine,
we can simply press OK.
Now we loaded our first query into the query editor and we can see it in the left column
where we have the name of that query and in the center where we see the data. Short note,
you can also see in the formula bar
what we did, so we connected that query to a file located in the folder where the file is located,
in my case it is the folder right here,
in your case this is another folder and we have that applied step,
so that connection to the source file also displayed right here.
Now after knowing that, let's quickly import the remaining two queries and I do that quicker now as the
process is the same as for this first query.
So I'll go to new source in the lower part of the button,
csv, select the second file, press open and now we see that structure is fine but we can really
see that we have some N/A's in here,
so we might take care about that later.
So let's press OK,
now you imported the second query as we can see right here,
now let's do that one last time for the third query, text csv, fourth query open,
now this seems to be fine also,
let's press OK
and now we did it.
We now have three queries in our query editor and this was simple, right?
So now it's time to start the real shaping and cleaning of the data because if we click through that
queries, we see that there are things that should not be the way they are right here.
Let's take a look at that in the next video.